# Notes.md

## 2/22/2017

Solve what's in front of you - one thing at a time

A tree of database information is unique for every descriptor : database, system, schema, etc...

The system piece is driven by the local needs.  In a lot of cases, the schema and system are always the same.  So how to compress this effectively.

Database, Schema are usually programmatic.  In a data warehouse situation, you can have many systems feeding in data.  That's important, but more from a tagging perspective.  

One server can have multiple databases.  At the end of the data, many of the top level descriptors (server, database, schema) can be repetitive to a set of tables.  So maybe we go back to the basics.  The two required columns are Table and Column.  Everything above that is important if there are multiple databases being tracked (highly likely).  So even if in the circumstance of a single set of tables situation, you have to remember that the meta server might end up containing multiple unrelated databases.

Todo
[x] Figure out function to collapse repetitive values for server, database and schema

## 2/23/2017

There are three core pieces to the mapping:

* Database
* Table
* Column

Everything else is nuance.

Databases have server names, but usually just one.
Tables have schemas, but usually it's not relevant (not always true)
Columns have a bunch of detail attached to them - that's where the fun stuff really lies.

Search has to cover everything.

That was a lot of work getting the pieces together.  For now, databases and tables are functional.  Next to do the column page. and then think about the overall theme.  Then search again.

## 03/17/2017
Basic thoughts around the structure of the system.  

Combines existing structure with living knowledge and actual behavior mapping how your company stores, think about and uses data to succeed.  It is the best solution to the "sandy-steve-sally" problem.

### Sandy
Has been here since the dawn of time and is about to retire, taking decades of hard won contextual knowledge out with her.  When anyone had a question about how or why a particular table was used, she was the go to.  

### Steve
Brand new employee, lots of energy, very little business knowledge.  Was hired for SQL skills but has _no_ idea where the tables are, how they fit together, and what his coworkers do with the data.

### Sally
In role for a couple of years now.  Quite often the trainer for the new person, but occasionally runs into edge cases where Sandy would really help.  She's starting to gather a body of knowledge and has no good way to give back to the community.

## 03/27/2017

Every interaction at work with a metadata system leaves me wishing for this very system.

Major Buckets:

* DB - Databases
* table - Tables
* Column - Columns
* Query - Queries - existing queries
* User - Users
* Search - Search string
* Note - commentary on the above.  

Simple keying system based on the buckets.  Use BoltDB incrementing index to id them automatically.   Don't need to mess around with anything else.


## 03/28/2017
And we're back with the generated key.

abcd = database
abcd.efgh = a table in the database
abcd.efgh.ijkl = a column in that table in that database

Four characters are generated by fourLetterGenerator.  Checked for uniqueness and then assigned to the name.  Two k/v stores will manage the generated key and the name.  name2Key and key2Name. It feels necessary to manage this automatically rather than either trusting the names of the databases, tables and columns - they all need to be irrelevant to the HTML and other requirements.  The way that SQL queries works is similar to this, but a little more nuanced.  The database can be simply the environment that the query is running in.  Is there a mechanical difference between schema and a database?  

## 06/20/2017

Wow.  That took a while.   

Now back to work.  

## 06/22/2017

Some basic styling might be in order at this point.  Right now - it's just a little linking, a little stinking.

## 07/06/2017

Starting to make it actually look like something not ... bad.
